Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
- Hi.
- Hi!
- So happy you guys could
join the discussion today.
- Am I too loud?
I didn't really mess
with my microphone volume.
- I wanna make sure that my
camera placement is right.
Here. and then my laptop
straight ahead.
- I just trust you to film
whatever angle
you think you look best in.
- [laughing]
- Okay. cool.
- I'm just gonna have everyone
hold your hands
sort of in front of your face
and if everyone could clap
so we could sync audio
that would be a huge help.
- Hi. everyone.
- Hey.
- Hi.
- I was just thinking about.
like. how kind of cathartic
this is to talk to people
that kind of understand...
kind of some
of the darker stuff
that we've sort of
lived through.
It's just that it's a great
feeling.
[mid-tempo music]
- * Oh. yeah *
* *
* I am not the things
my family did *
* I am not the voices
in my head *
* I am not the pieces
of the brokenness *
* Inside *
* No. I am not mistakes
that I have made *
* Or any of the things
that cause me pain *
* No. I am not the pieces
of the dream I left behind *
* *
- I think I knew.
I think I knew for a while.
A lot of. like. my seventh
and eighth grade year
was me looking up. like.
depression tests online
and doing different things
like that.
Like. I think that I had
a sense of it.
- I think I knew that
I was sad. but...
I didn't quite understand
depression fully
'cause even when I was
in eighth grade.
it wasn't a very...
common subject amongst people.
Only when I got
into high school
did it start being voiced
by people. but I was very...
very confused.
- Depression didn't really kick
in. like. full-blown depression
until I was probably
in middle school.
That's when I would hit these
bouts of just...
this dark kind of sadness
I really couldn't understand.
- I felt alone
and I felt scared.
and I was having these ideas
of what killing myself
would even look like.
- Probably the first time
I thought about suicide
was when I was 13.
- I would imagine what I would
look like in a casket
or I would imagine...
kind of what my funeral
would look like.
- I don't think I ever fully
wanted to die.
I think I wanted to escape.
- I wasn't really able to
talk to my parents
because I was just
an angsty kid. right?
And when you're a kid.
you avoid your parents.
It's what you do.
- I remember when I told my dad
about my suicide attempt.
he took me to church
because he had thought
I was possessed.
[chuckles]
I was like..."That is not it."
[suspenseful music]
* *
- This is Annie
with YouthLine.
What's going on tonight?
- All right. we have two
new texts in queue.
Can anyone grab those?
Thank you.
* *
All right. so they confirmed
that they're having thoughts
of suicide.
- Okay.
- I'm a lead volunteer
at the YouthLine.
I've been working
with YouthLine
a little over a year.
Part of why I love
doing this work
is because of the personal
experience that I have.
Freshman year of high school.
I tried to kill myself.
It hit my family really hard
and when I was in that space.
I wasn't. like.
capable of thinking about how
it was affecting other people.
which is generally how it is.
I think I definitely
empathize with the fact
that generally when people
are suicidal.
it's really. really hard
to think about
how it's gonna affect others.
A lot of times. you feel like
others aren't gonna care
and that's just what your brain
is telling you. which sucks.
I had felt like that
for a long time.
I think other people noticed.
but I've always been...
for lack of a better word.
high functioning.
* *
At the beginning.
I tried to hide it
and I tried to not let people
know what was going on for me.
But freshman year was when
stuff kind of got scattered.
I was hospitalized
for the suicide attempt.
I was kind of like
in and out of the hospital
a lot of my freshman year
and was just really. really
struggling with. like.
talking about
what was going on for me
and not being. like.
so angry at everyone
because I was really angry
at everyone.
You talked about how things
don't feel like
they're getting better
and how you're trying
really hard
and it doesn't seem like
stuff's working.
Are you thinking
about suicide at all?
I used YouthLine
as a resource.
It was kind of my last resort.
I wasn't super into the idea
at first
and I didn't really
understand. like.
why hotlines would be helpful
and then I did use it.
And it was a lot easier
to open up to somebody
that was my age.
Okay.
It sucks to hear people
who you. like.
so viscerally feel like
we're in the exact same spot
as you were before
because. like.
I remember being in that spot
and I remember
how much it sucked
and how much I didn't
want to talk to anyone
and how much I. like.
really could not imagine it
getting any better.
[laughs]
Yeah.
It sucks. but sometimes
it's good to let it out.
Do you think that it would be
helpful to try to check in
with either. like.
the treatment people
or that teacher tomorrow
and then we could call you back
after school?
You think
that would be helpful?
Okay.
Give me one second.
When I was 15. 16.
I could not see myself having
a job or going to college
because I just couldn't see
my future that long.
So every time I'd get through
one of those milestones.
that's what I think about
and I think about
how happy I am to be alive
and how grateful I am
that I kept going.
[calm music]
* *
[mid-tempo music]
- My name is Hannah.
and I am a high school senior.
[car horn honking]
I'm also an extrovert.
Whoo!
- Yeah!
- And I'm the only extrovert
in a household of introverts.
I live in Forsyth County.
Georgia.
It's the South.
It is a very interesting...
area. if you get
what I'm saying.
Growing up. it's always just
been an unspoken rule
that because of the color
of my skin.
I have to work ten times
as hard
in order to be seen
as half as good.
I grew up to strive
for perfection
quite literally.
I was a competitive gymnast.
I was in the gym
over 30 hours a week.
But the end of seventh grade.
I got really sick
and I started getting
these dizzy spells
and I started fainting.
And because of my fainting.
I was bullied.
I was harassed.
I was sexually threatened.
Freshman year. I was diagnosed
with a chronic illness.
I just felt so hopeless.
I felt useless.
You know.
used to be an athlete.
I was on top of the world.
I was a gymnast!
You know. nothing
could have stopped me.
And I went from being that
to a kid who needed help
just to be able to walk.
It was just...awful.
* *
I didn't want to be seen as
the weak little Black girl.
And not only that. but with
the sexual harassment threats.
I felt terrified.
You know. what happens
if I pass out
around the wrong person?
So that was when I started
struggling with anxiety
and depression.
I never thought that
it'd get that bad
until I passed out
at school one day. again.
and my mom had to come
to the nurse's office.
And just to see the look
on her face
when I was in the wheelchair
and she had to wheel me out
to her car yet again--
I didn't want to be
her burden.
and it just kind of
snowballed from there.
Until one night.
I snuck downstairs
in the middle of the night.
grabbed all of my dad's
medicine...
and my mom. luckily.
she barged into my room
right when I started to
swallow one handful at a time.
And...
just the horror on her face
when she found me will...
forever be burned
into my memory.
* *
Honestly. I don't even think
the thought occurred to her
to take me to a hospital.
You know. I think it all goes
back to that idea of...
weakness in the Black community
and how we don't allow
ourselves to be seen as weak.
But the night
of my suicide attempt.
me and my mom kind of looked
at each other
and we were. like.
"Okay. well...
this--we might...I might need
some help." you know?
We started looking
for Black therapists
so that I have someone
that I could relate to
on...on lots and lots
of bases.
I love therapy.
I'm in therapy religiously.
It's helped me be okay
with myself
and learn to love myself.
* *
I started messaging myself
things to motivate me
throughout the day.
And that's when my brother
and I had the idea
for the "Not OK" app--
basically.
a digital panic button
that sends an alert
with a message
that says "Hey. it's me.
and I'm not OK."
I--honestly. I love creating
and I love solving problems
and I love sending those
solutions out into the world.
- * Ooh *
- * I *
* I am light.
I am light *
- Now. I am my definition
of "Black Girl Magic."
you know?
I love myself.
I'm wearing my natural hair.
you know?
I don't care what anyone else
thinks besides me
because I know that I'm magic.
I know how powerful I am.
I know that I'm strong...
even though I can be
vulnerable.
- * I am light *
[train horn in distance]
- Janis. sitting up here
in New York.
Never expected
to be studying suicide
and self-injury at all.
honestly.
but I tend to like things
that make other people nervous.
I like--I like the things
that are on our--
in our social edge
because I think that's where
the greatest authenticity is.
sort of the place
where humans
are in some ways
the most human.
Your journeys
have been really hard-won.
This is hard-won wisdom. right?
So when you look back
and when you look
at the situations
of other people you encounter.
what do you think
are the greatest obstacles
in getting help
or receiving help?
- My maybe biggest barrier
to getting help
is that for. like.
a really long time.
I didn't want help.
You know?
And I was so used to. like...
dealing with it on my own.
And I was so deeply
kind of stuck
in my own head
and that even though
it was so bad.
it was also kind of comfortable
because I had been there
for so long
and I didn't necessarily
want to get better.
- Yeah.
I'll pitch in next.
I'd started off fighting
every form of treatment
that I was offered.
I'd go to counselors
and I wouldn't be able
to speak with them 'cause
I would just constantly
try to outsmart them.
- I...
I grew up very perfectionistic.
and I had a lot of internalized
transphobia
that was made worse
by my perfectionism
because I felt like being trans
wasn't being perfect.
- I am of South Asian descent.
I'm an immigrant.
I am Indian.
My parents are Indian.
and within the South Asian
community.
mental health
is incredibly stigmatized.
Like. it's incredibly
stigmatized everywhere.
but specifically within
immigrant communities
is beyond stigmatized.
- When my family and I.
we were going
through family therapy.
we still had a lot to work on.
you know?
I was in a much better place.
but I was still in a dark place
and I was trying to be honest
and open with my family.
But we had to work really.
really hard
to break out of those stigmas
that were beat into our head
from such a young age.
you know?
- I think for me
being a member
of the Latinx community.
just culturally. you know.
the way I was raised in that
community as a male
regarding help-seeking.
regarding mental health issues
and the diagnosis
that I had at that time.
overcoming that.
the stigma--
that was a pretty significant
barrier.
- Yeah.
I think you hit it on the head.
We kind of keep it to
ourselves.
and we're not able to have
conversations about it
and bring light to it
and actually empathize
with each other
because we think
it's just this rare thing
that happens to a select few.
but it really isn't.
[train horn in distance]
[dog howling]
- Yeah. so...
I'm too. uh. too jacked
for this shirt. apparently.
It's a wand that's doing
a Patronus of a wolf.
and the wolf is going up
against a Dementor
and a Golden Snitch right here
and the a little bit of
Hogwarts School down here.
[mid-tempo music]
* *
When I was bouncing around
in patient treatment
facilities.
"Harry Potter" was such
a good. like. escape for me.
It really helped me
cope a lot.
* *
I was a very emotional kid
and I just had these
really strong feelings
that were really difficult
for me to regulate.
In the Latin culture
particularly.
there is a stigma against--
any sort of mental health
challenge or issue
is a sign of weakness.
And then. furthermore.
as a male in that culture.
I was to be the protector.
I was to be the--
you know. strong.
And there's the kind of. like.
"machismo" stereotype.
Because my folks came
to the U.S. from Guatemala.
there were so many standards.
Like. "We came here for you
to live a better life.
"You need to work extra hard
"because people
are gonna be watching you.
"People are gonna be
waiting for you to screw up.
People are gonna be waiting
for you to get in trouble."
From a very young age.
I showed signs of having
significant anger issues.
But then. beyond that.
I had anxiety
and these really intense
racing thoughts.
What I describe racing thoughts
for people that don't know.
it's like...
it's never positive things.
It was never. like.
"Oh. I feel great.
I can't wait to go to school.
"I can't wait to go hang out
with my friends
"and ask questions at school.
talk to my teachers
and all that stuff."
Like. it was never anything
like that.
It's always negative thoughts.
like.
"Oh. like. why'd you do that?
That was so stupid.
"Like. don't do that.
Why'd you say that?
"Don't--why'd you--don't go
to class. don't do this.
you can't do that. don't even
try. you're gonna mess up."
Like. it's that racing. just
exhausting dialogue in my head.
Come sophomore year. my mental
state was just really fragile.
And by my senior year.
I started to feel this. like.
immense pressure.
* *
My brothers both
went to Ivy League schools.
One of my brothers was at MIT
and the other was at Penn.
* *
Everybody was kind of like.
"Wow!
"Look at what you're family's
done since they've been here.
That's awesome."
Like. "You're next."
* *
And I felt like a burden.
I remember just feeling like
I just didn't want to be here
anymore.
* *
Took a bunch of pills
and took my parent's car.
* *
I remember just seeing
these flashing lights
in my rearview mirror.
I remember thinking to myself.
"It's too late.
They can't stop me.
This is over."
I remember just looking up
and seeing this state trooper
out of his car. gun drawn.
and I remember just saying
to him. like.
"Please. just shoot."
Like. "There's nothing
you can do.
You can't save me."
He kind of saw
that I was in distress
and. fortunately. was able
to subdue me away from traffic
and I blacked out.
I woke up handcuffed
to my hospital bed.
I was admitted into
a day treatment program.
I remember thinking.
"I don't think I can
amount to anything.
I don't think I can go on.
I don't think I have a future."
[birds chirping]
I had two or three friends
that would write me letters
and check in on me.
I had the support
from most of my family
even though. you know.
a lot of them
couldn't really understand
or relate
to what I was going through.
And I remember thinking
to myself.
I've. like.
fucked this up so much."
Like. I've been my own worst
enemy in so many ways.
But if there's anybody
that can look me in the eye
or write me these letters
and tell me they care about me
and they still think I can be.
like.
a functioning adult
in the future...
maybe I should trust them.
[birds chirping]
I remember
going to my therapist.
this old white dude with.
like. a curly mustache
and would. like. rock in his
chair during our sessions.
And I remember going to him
and being. like.
"I'm so pumped.
I can't wait to get out.
"I'm gonna graduate
high school.
I'm gonna get out of here.
I'm gonna. like. go do things."
And. like. I was genuinely
excited and motivated
and he kind of
just looked at me
and he. like.
rocked in his chair
twirled his mustache
and he was like. "Pablo...
"Your true test is gonna be.
"are you gonna be able
to maintain--this momentum
"that you have right now
in this moment--
"are you gonna be able to
maintain that
when there's a challenge?"
[calm music]
So I went back home
and graduated high school
and started to kind of just
change things up.
I started working
at a health club
and learned a lot
about having a healthy body
and a healthy mind.
Met who is now
my beautiful wife.
Got a dog and learned
how to have to. like.
walk it three times a day
and feed it.
And so I kind of learned
that I needed to have. like.
foundation upon foundation
upon safety net
and backup plan
so that. like. no matter what
blew up in my life
that I could still bounce back
and just take it as. like.
an obstacle
and keep it moving.
* *
Boom!
Like. through COVID
and being at home
and all the racial injustice
that's coming into
the spotlight right now.
it's like...
you have to be patient
and kind with yourself
and with those around you
to help understand
and to help listen
and to help push through
this really tough time.
[moody music]
* *
[soft music]
- How are you doing?
- I'm doing okay.
I had a pretty decent week
for the most part
except for my birthday.
I turned 25.
Yeah. I don't--I don't like
my birthdays.
Like. all my past birthdays.
my recent birthdays.
from. like. 19 until now
have all been super shitty.
Like. my last birthday.
I was in a psych hospital
for. like. two months.
- Okay.
- And so it just
makes me feel bad.
[sighs]
What do I do when I'm feeling
super intense?
Like. I'm getting clouded.
Like. "Kill yourself. kill
yourself. kill yourself.
Life is worthless."
like in that moment.
and I'm freaking out.
- When emotions are really
high. it's like a bonfire.
A forest fire.
At that moment. the best thing
you can possibly do
is do some distracting
because we need to get that.
what feels like a forest fire
of emotions.
down to. like. a campfire size.
- When I hear
somebody say. like.
they've never felt low enough
where they've wanted
to kill themselves
or suicide's never
crossed their mind.
like. to me. I'm like...
"How is that possible?"
Because it's just been on my
brain. like. my whole life.
- Yeah.
- And so...
I don't know.
it seems weird.
Like. I just want
to be over it.
[soft music]
* *
I can't remember anything
before age seven.
That's when it all started.
* *
My family's never been close.
There was a lot of
tension and fighting.
My dad was
a pretty angry person
and my mom was pretty consumed
with her mental health issues.
* *
When I was nine.
my mom tried to kill herself.
I don't know all the reasons
why she did that. but...
I understand what it's like
to feel...
like you want to die.
[somber music]
* *
When I was super young.
I tried to avoid my home life
as much as possible
so then I was out a lot
and then being around
older influences
and people who did not have
my best interest...
I would say that's when
I started...
on a cycle that was just
definitely not healthy for me.
So I ended up
starting to drink
and smoke weed and pop pills
when I was. like. 13.
And then I was raped
when I was 13
by these older men.
I didn't tell anyone about it.
and then when I was 16.
I had an experience as well.
And I didn't know it was...
it just seemed normal.
and I felt like
it was my fault. and...
I think I could see now. like.
all the things that played into
me wanting to not be here.
but that's when I started.
like...
hating life and then my
self-harm got. like. crazy.
* *
And at this point. like.
I was very suicidal.
And I had different attempts
along the way.
I've been in a psych ward
maybe four or five times.
I would. like.
wake up in the hospital.
I'm like.
"Fuck. I'm still here."
* *
I needed something
different...
and I left California.
Moving here with my aunt
and my uncle
and then their two boys...
That changed my life.
[laughs]
Okay.
Dear God.
thank you for this food.
and I pray that you help us
to just be lights in this world
and honor you.
In Jesus' name. Amen.
- Amen.
- I immediately got
a customer service job
which is my favorite
kind of job
'cause I get to interact
with people.
and I started to meet people
here in Colorado.
Like all week.
all I was eating was...
As soon as I moved here.
I got a therapist. though.
just because I'm like.
"Next time I get triggered.
"I'm not--I'm not gonna go
off the deep end
and try to wreck my life
and not care."
I'm not gonna lie.
I'm not sure what keeps me
here all the time.
My friends. my dog.
I'm still figuring it out.
[soft music]
* *
- Uh. can I write?
- You can write. yeah.
- Is that. like.
a quality shot?
- Yeah. yeah.
[laughter]
[mid-tempo music]
- Well. my name is.
officially. as of last week.
Quinn Marcroft.
I've got that nice little "F"
on my driver's license now.
So. yeah.
So this is my little
pine bed here.
and it's a good place
to sit and read.
I just added some new needles.
I recently moved to
Portland. Oregon.
This is the first time
in my life
that I've been able
to live on my own.
[whistling]
I mostly grew up
in St. George. Utah.
And I was kind of raised
to love nature
and that's always been
something that I...
go to when I'm having
a hard time.
Because
if I don't force myself
to do things that I enjoy.
then I forget
that I enjoy things.
I've been diagnosed with
borderline personality
disorder. anxiety disorder.
bipolar disorder once. um.
and I think the one
that most of the people that
know me have kind of settled on
is the treatment-resistant
depression.
When I was like
four or five.
I would always pretend. like.
in secret. to be a woman.
And I would hide it.
I knew that being a gender
that you weren't assigned
is not something
that's looked upon as good.
at least in Utah...right?
Or. at least
in the LDS culture.
And LDS is "Latter Day Saints."
It's Mormon. for those of you
who don't know.
The winter of my junior
year in high school.
I came out to my parents.
And my parents
weren't thrilled.
but they were always...
always supportive of me.
I started hormones in 2016.
But I didn't want to be out
as trans in high school.
I wore a dress to graduation
under my cap and gown.
and it was a really cute way
to come out to the public.
but I'm a trans woman in
a very Conservative society.
Basically an outcast.
After that.
things kind of went to shit.
[soft music]
My suicidal ideation
was off the charts.
I don't think that I ever
really wanted to leave.
* *
I just know that I wanted
to be out of the pain.
I have been forcing myself
to not spend more than an hour
on my phone a day.
I read. I write.
I go on a walk.
I listen to music that I like.
and I do all of these
different things.
and that builds
my life worth living.
[somber music]
* *
[edgy music]
- My name is Saniya.
I live in San Jose. California.
and I go to school at Drexel
University in Philadelphia.
Coming from
a South Asian background
of a collectivist culture
where being an individual
is selfish.
that plays a huge role in how
you interact with mental health
and even self-care.
[water splashes]
From a very young age. I knew
that my parents had problems.
The earliest I can remember
my dad being abusive
is probably about four.
They had gotten into a fight.
and I remember hearing
something fall down the stairs
and I remember
just instantly thinking
that was my mom.
* *
But there was this unsaid.
unspoken rule of
things are kept quiet.
What happens in the home
stays in the home.
As time went on.
the abuse was more often.
I was seeing it a lot more.
I felt utterly alone.
Beginning of sophomore year.
my parents
finally got separated.
Moved in with my mom
full-time.
At school.
I couldn't concentrate.
My grades fell drastically.
I couldn't get up
in the mornings.
I went to the school counselor
and I told her...
"Hi." like...
"I'm. you know...
I'm suicidal." and...
she said. "But are you really?"
And it was March 15th of 2015
and I--my mom wasn't home.
My sister was with my dad.
And I was just. like.
"You know what?
I'm tired.
I'm gonna do it."
* *
I had written a note
on my Facebook wall
saying sorry for being a burden
to my friends and my family.
My best friend saw the post.
She called me and she was
like. "I'm coming over."
And I was like.
"Please don't."
And she was like.
"No. I'm coming over."
Drove over
and just kind of held me.
I really appreciate
that she convinced me
to tell my mom.
because I don't think
I would have
if she didn't stay with me
until my mom came home.
* *
And I told my mom.
"So. I tried to kill
myself today.
I need to go to the hospital."
* *
My mom had to really shift
her own mentality
because of the world
she grew up in.
She visited me every day
at the hospital.
as well when I was transferred
to the psych ward.
She took me to my therapy
appointments.
She went to the group meetings
with other parents
to learn about
what was going on.
to make sure
I took my medication.
Mental health is a huge taboo
in the South Asian community
and the Asian American
community.
To make that shift into
acknowledge and accept
"My daughter
has a mental illness.
"my daughter is diagnosed
with depression.
"this is--therapy
is the right path.
medication
is the right path..."
Was huge.
* *
And this is "Loudmouth Ladkis."
As you know. our podcast
is focused on
exploring taboo.
stigmatized topics
that our South Asian parents
don't explore.
You can log on and check out
which South Asian therapists
are within your area.
You can shoot them a message.
My entire
mental health journey.
which is. you know.
still going on.
has really informed what I
want to do in the future.
because I've had so many people
come and ask me. you know.
"I'm looking for a therapist
that looks like me."
And. like. I completely
understand that.
I mean. that's the--
the driving force
behind why I want
to become a psychologist.
[soft music]
* *
- What were the turning points
in your journey?
What--I mean. all of you
got to the precipice
where you considered
not living.
What--why did you decide
to live and to stay?
- Yeah. I got sober after
performing on a cruise ship.
[chuckles]
For four months.
So you can imagine
that that was kind of
what I was doing a lot of.
When I quit drinking was really
when my life turned around
and I became less suicidal
when I stopped drinking.
- I guess the medicine
is pretty much the biggest
thing out of all of it.
I've struggled
with a lot of addictions
in which I don't trust myself
with certain medications.
so it took a long time...
[laughs]
it took a really long time.
but.
I consulted
with a psychiatrist
over taking
an anti-anxiety medication
and I've definitely turned
around where I need to be.
- The first time
I ever went to the hospital
for. like. psychiatric care
was the result
of a suicide attempt
and so I was definitely
sure that. you know.
that that was bad enough.
that that could be
my turning point.
That was only
the beginning of it.
And I hated therapy and I
absolutely did not want to go.
I realized that. like.
this isn't gonna work
if I don't think
it's going to work.
- I think maybe we--
- I think--
Go ahead.
- Yeah.
Okay. so I think it got
really dark for me.
but I had no idea
that it was depression.
and I ended up
going to counseling
after a bunch of resistance
initially to counseling.
I ended up finally going
and speaking to a psychiatrist.
And so the turning point
was really just
really being sick and tired
of where I was
and willing to try anything
to get myself
to a better position.
- Kind of like
Abraham's saying.
I also didn't know what it was.
I just knew
I wanted to die constantly.
like. every day.
and there was no way out.
And so it finally took
kind of my life falling
into a complete dark hole
for me to kind of look for
a lot of professional help.
And so kind of
realizing I'm human.
and that doesn't make me weak.
It actually--
it's a strong thing
to admit that you're hurting.
- I think the people in this
room...can we call it a room?
The people in this room?
- Sure.
- For sure. like. I mean...
we were able to get through
what we got through.
We are continuing to battle.
like. day-to-day challenges
and I think that
the ability that we have
to connect in this way.
I think. is...
it inspires me and gives me
hope for the future.
- Um...
so. I'll go with this one here.
This one I wrote
is. like. how I think.
It's just a rush of thoughts.
"I'm running from paranoia.
"I think that
I'm being tortured
"with closed lips
and reaping horrors.
"I rob myself
of my whole life.
"I should be booked
for larceny.
"I'm Houdini.
trapped inside myself
without a master key."
The first verse is kind of
me running from myself.
I have a ton of demons.
and...
I don't think the suicidal
thoughts will ever go away.
* *
I am Nathan. and I'm 17.
I--I don't have any kind
of clear grasp
of who I might be.
I'm still struggling to.
like. find passions
and substance.
I'm just lacking...
* *
Me.
My parents have always
been amazing people.
I know that I am not
at all what they expected.
I mean.
my mom is a therapist.
She's. of course.
expressed her concerns
about what she thinks
I'm going through.
but I'm very much
in denial about stuff.
[soft music]
* *
I guess I was bouncy.
I was kind of
an off-the-walls kid.
I always had a lot of energy.
I grew up in Utah.
and it was a very interesting
experience. to say the least.
but then I moved to
Colorado...
and that was something
completely different.
When I transferred schools.
I lost all of my friends.
It started off with bullying
and just not being accepted.
I would change myself
on a daily basis.
Change up my clothes.
my style.
the way I talked.
the way I walked.
anything I could do
to conform to people
who would just
finally accept me.
And I know
if I could have dropped
wanting to be everyone else
instead of myself.
I wouldn't have--I wouldn't
have fallen
into a loop of drugs.
I wouldn't have fallen
into a cycle of depression.
into anything.
I'm sure I would have had
my problems. but...
it wouldn't have been the same
at all. by any means.
The first real moment
where I was like.
"Yeah. I think
I want it to be over."
was probably. like.
eighth grade.
I felt like a mess.
I felt like...
I didn't have a real purpose.
And I know I look back at it
and I'm. like.
"I was in eighth grade.
how could I possibly
determine my purpose
in eighth grade?"
But. I mean. it's how I felt.
[tinny music playing]
Turning 18 soon
and having to adult.
it's been a roller-coaster.
Oh. I've got an idea.
Music is like
what saved my life.
It's just a way
to feel those feelings.
I can say to myself
sometimes.
"It's okay to feel it."
I think tucking it away...
it's inevitable
to come back around.
Let yourself cry.
Let yourself feel
the feelings you're feeling.
Or do your damn best. at least.
I--you just have to kind of...
push yourself forward.
And. honestly. I suck at it.
[laughs]
[mid-tempo music]
* *
[soft guitar notes]
- I grew up in Tennessee
in Hixson...
kind of like
the country suburb
right outside of Chattanooga.
You know. kind of
a conservative place
where gender roles
were very...strict.
A lot of the fear
that was engrained in me
about just being myself
was from the outside world--
it was not from my family.
I was often told
that my interests
were for boys and stuff
by teachers and other parents.
Growing up in the '90s.
you know. there wasn't really
anybody on TV
that I thought.
"Gosh. you know what?
I think I'm kind of like them."
You know. there was no
lifeguard at the pool
where I was like.
"Oh. my gosh. that's a cool
lesbian and I want her hair."
You know?
There was nothing there for me.
so that's where I became
really goofy.
If I could make people laugh.
they wouldn't make fun of me
or think I was weird.
I wasn't out or didn't know
that really
I was queer at all.
but I was...
I was weird.
Crap. I don't know
when it turns on.
And then when
I was about ten.
depression hit pretty hard.
A cousin of mine
passed away kind of abruptly
and she was 17.
And from then on.
I thought about suicide a lot
and dying young.
And a year--almost probably
a year after that
was my first suicide attempt.
It was no written plan
or anything.
but I remember the feeling
growing. you know.
and I was outside
actually playing tag
with some neighborhood
kids at night
and I remember sitting
in the driveway
and watching these other teens.
you know.
young teens interact
and thinking...
"Oh. God.
I hate this."
[laughs]
Um...
"I don't know who I am.
"I don't know why I feel bad.
but...you know what?
It's--I'd like it to stop."
That's when I just
decided to overdose.
* *
I had my stomach pumped
which. in and of itself.
I gotta say
was a pretty traumatic
experience.
I remember being
kind of flustered.
Not necessarily happy
that I was alive
because I felt the same.
but I was happy that I was
talking to people about it.
That was a huge relief.
And then there were family
members that were mad at me
because...you know.
"How dare you cause this pain
on your family that's so
tight-knit." you know?
So I felt ashamed. too.
I felt...
I felt selfish.
And I still--I still kind of
do when I have these thoughts.
* *
I went into some regular
therapy. which was great.
But it took a minute.
of course.
to find some good therapists.
I was on medication
that did help. but...
therapy and doing a lot of
work around my gender identity
that wasn't really addressed...
that needed to happen.
and it didn't.
* *
I was still very confused.
and I tried to fit in
and trying to act like
other girls in high school.
I was grasping for something
for a long time.
- Are you a late-in-life gay
or an early-in-life gay?
- Are you a baby dyke?
- Are you trying to make up
for all the times
you said. "That's so gay"
in high school?
- After ten years.
I was performing a lot.
Did comedy at night.
I was drinking every night.
Being on antidepressants
and drinking
is just not a good idea.
I did not react well to it.
I had some career upsets and
not feeling good about myself.
I was kind of getting
to that same headspace
where I was 13 again.
My thoughts were very dark.
I thought about death a lot.
You know. that suicide ideality
kind of slipping back
into my brain.
It was--it was so bad
that I thought again...
"I might just do this."
But. you know.
that little part of me
where my parents really...
you know.
were in the back of my head
with how much. you know.
they've loved me
throughout the years.
I called my mom and said.
"Something's not..."
You know.
"Something's not right.
I don't want to be alive."
She said.
"You need to come home."
I wanted help.
I wanted a professional's help.
too.
* *
Being in a mental health
facility actually taught me
that in these
really dark places.
when you think that you'd be
better off not here...
the thoughts that are coming
into your head right now
are...
because of certain chemicals
in your brain.
They're false.
Because you're sick.
We have places in peoples'
lives that we...
we don't realize we fill.
And it...
it's just not the answer
for us to disappear.
[soft music]
* *
[lighthearted music]
- I live in Pensacola.
Florida currently.
* *
I'm a middle school teacher.
It's a very rewarding job
and I love my students.
* *
[laughs]
I was the first in my family
to attend college.
Both of my parents
are immigrants from Jamaica
and they came to America
to pursue the American Dream.
Growing up. I had this image
of what college was supposed
to be like.
But when I finally got there.
it was...
[laughs]
it didn't go as planned.
I didn't think
about the challenges
that could come
from transitioning
from high school to college.
For the first time.
I had to pay bills
like rent and groceries
and so I kind of had
to grow up really fast.
I was working a full-time job
and also a full-time student.
I started to get
really stressed
and didn't want
to go to class.
I didn't want to
go to work.
My safe space was really just
staying in my bed
all day long
with the blinds closed.
* *
I couldn't focus. I couldn't
articulate my thoughts.
* *
Growing up
in a Christian household.
we were pretty much taught
to bring everything to God
in prayer.
And I was praying harder
and I was praying louder
and the more I prayed.
nothing really changed for me.
The other factor for me
as a Black man.
I was. you know.
raised to be able
to overcome different
adversities
and so I felt like
to ask for help
was a sign
that I was incompetent
or I couldn't figure it out.
And if I couldn't
figure it out.
then that meant that...
you know. I don't deserve
to call myself a man.
I wanted to stop the pain.
and the only option that I
thought existed was suicide.
And I remember
I got a phone call
from a really
good friend of mine.
She's asked me if I was okay
and before
I could even finish.
she said.
"What you're describing.
"it sounds like depression.
and if you need help. you can
see the counselor on campus."
I remember I was talking
to myself. like.
"Nah. I don't need. you know.
any help. I'm good.
I don't need to talk
to a therapist."
One day. at some point.
I will no longer be depressed.
But I had gotten so low.
finally went
to the counseling center
and sat down in front
of a psychiatrist.
and that's when things
really changed for me.
I kind of liken it
to having the flu.
Like. if I had the symptoms
of the flu.
I wouldn't sit in my room
and just pray
that the flu is gone.
I would take some medicine
or I would go see a doctor.
* *
Using medication
in the beginning phase
really helped me to at least
engage in therapy.
Throughout that process.
it started to take
more of a holistic approach.
utilizing
the coping strategies
that my therapist
shared with me.
Changing my diet.
I eliminated some things
that would feed the symptoms of
depression that I was having.
I established
different routines.
I remember the first time my
therapist mentioned journaling
and that I should try it.
I was like. "Nah.
"I will never--
what do I look like
carrying a diary with me
as a guy?"
But as I mentioned. I was so
committed to the process
that if my therapist said it.
I'm gonna try it. at least.
[upbeat music]
And then things got better.
I was out of school
for about 3 1/2 months
and every day. I was just
thinking about. like.
how can I do something
with this experience?
And. so. when I went
back to school.
I was on a mission
to be an advocate.
And I was very uncomfortable
sharing my story.
but for me.
the mission was greater
than how uncomfortable I was.
I am 21.
I'm from south Florida.
and I am a college student
at this university
just like you all.
* *
Once I got a little bit
more comfortable.
I started to reach out
to different fraternities
and sororities
and student organizations.
and I noticed that there were
a lot of us on campus
who were going through
some of the same struggles.
but no one was really
opening up about it.
* *
I think there's this African
proverb where it says.
Like. "You can go fast alone
or by yourself.
but you can go far together."
And I think that's so true
where when you have community.
you're able to go
so much further.
You're able to do so much more
because you're not carrying
the load all by yourself.
[soft music]
* *
- If you could talk to your
younger self right now.
what would you say?
* *
- There's not. like.
one big step
to make it all turn around
and there's not like
probably one piece of advice
that I could give you
besides. like.
not giving up
and keeping at it.
- You're gonna be okay.
I know it doesn't
seem like it now. trust me.
I totally understand that
it may not seem like it now.
but...
you don't have to reach out
to people in your life.
but reach out to someone.
- Ask for help.
Ask for support.
You're worthwhile.
You can do it.
It won't be easy.
but you can push through this.
- I totally get being alive
when you don't want to sucks.
and being depressed
is really hard. but...
there's no opportunity
to change or get better
if you're not here.
- Even with the struggle.
it's...
it's worth it because just...
the fact that I can enjoy life
is something...
that I didn't know
was possible.
- Through patience
and understanding
that this will pass.
that they can experience life
on the other side
of having suicidal thoughts.
- Open your heart to new things
every day...
and work.
Don't stop working.
- There are--there are...
trust me.
there are people out there
who are feeling similar to you
and...
you know. I'm one of them.
You may be feeling things also
that you cannot identify
why you're feeling that way.
That's okay.
It's okay if you don't know
why you feel a certain way.
and I wish somebody
had said that to me.
- I had something that pushed
me to keep talking to people.
And I think that
is what served me.
- * Ooh *
- * I *
* I am light.
I am light *
* I am not the things
my family did *
* I am not the voices
in my head *
* I am not the pieces
of the brokenness *
* Inside *
- * I am light *
- * I am light. yeah *
* I'm not the mistakes
that I have made *
* Or any of the things
that cause me pain *
* I am not the pieces
of the dreams I left behind *
* I am light *
- * Oh *
- * I am light.
I am light *
* I am light.
* I am not the color
of my eyes *
* I am not the *
- * Skin on the outside *
- * I am not my age *
- * I am not my race *
- * My soul inside *
- * Is all light *
- * I am divinity defined *
* I am a god on the inside *
* I am a star.
a piece of it all *
* I am light *
* I am
light *